---
layout:     post
title:      I am back
date:       2016-05-14 21:20:29
summary:    Living without home Internet didn't work out
categories: Internet
---

So, in the time since my last blog post, I had to realize that living without home Internet was not really feasible for me. While it was possible, it was tremendously impractical. One of my basic assumptions was, that I could use my mobile phone (with a 3GB data plan) as a hotspot to cover for most access. And while this method of access proved to be reliable and fast, the volume was insufficient.

Once I hooked up my Laptop, it slurped up Gigs and Gigs of data for updates etc. And while I did use CyberGhost VPN to compress data, within a week and a half, the jig was up. So I could do two things: either purchase more data or make frequent trips to the local library.

The first would end up costing more than my monthly home internet subscription and the second was a real sore. While the library here is not far away (about 15 minutes on foot), it's opening hours are limited from 14:00 to 17:00 and I can't plug in my Laptop anywhere. So I have about 2,5 to 3 hours (or however long my battery would last) to get done what needs doing. And as I am following online courses and have to search for a new job online, this meant almost daily trips. And that joke got old really fast.

So, with teeth gnashing I called the local cable provider to re-order a home Internet connection and woke up to another nightmare: they would need 3 weeks (!) for someone to call me to make an appointment (!) for the installation. The thing was, that by then I had taken a part-time temporary job for leadhunters.nl which did require a fast Internet connection for VOIP calling. And that was supposed to start in 1,5 weeks. After several heated discussions on the phone and significant hike in blood pressure, I got called by the service guy to make an appointment within 3 days. 

Who says complaining to someone on the phone never amounts to anything?
