---
layout:     post
title:      A week in...
date:       2016-04-02 11:21:29
summary:    ... things are not going smooth. Yet.
categories: Internet
---

So, as promised, I am giving you an update regarding my life without Internet. I am writing this article at home and once I get to the local library it will pushed to my website. In case you are wondering.

So, how have I been? For the first few days, it was OK, as mentioned earlier I could rely on the Internet that I get through my mobile phone. But boy, do you burn through those GB's once you hook up a laptop! In four days time, I had used up my 3 GB allowance. For my contract, that means you get slowed down from 4G to a 64 Kbit connection.

Now, I have been around to see some of the beginnings of home Internet when we got our 28.8 Kbit dial up modem, which must have been somewhere around 1994/1995. I thought I could deal with 64 KBit easily. But times have changed. The web has changed. I don't need to show you some wonky screenshots of the early CompuServe or Apple sites for you to know that. (Right?)

Nowadays sites are no longer static and they load in a lot of information, advertisements, cookies and plug-ins from other sources. This makes them rather heavy and slow if you are on a narrowband connection. While a lot of work goes into designing sites today to make them look good, if you look at the source code of a page, elegance is - in only too many cases - something else entirely.

One of the few sites that ran decently was my own (as it is generated as static pages and there is no database involved) and Wikipedia, which refrains from displaying a lot of advertisements.

This actually made me think back to a collocquium that I wrote for my graduation at the Handelsakademie: "The future of mobile communications"

Back in the day (we are talking April 2000), WAP had just been published and it sounded *amazing* to be able to check the weather, news and stock markets from your mobile phone - which still was the size of a small brick and sported a greyscale screen. We were all still busy playing "Snakes". So, at the time of my graduation, nobody yet had a device being able to run this new protocol and data transmission through GPRS was not yet supported by most providers - or if so, only very locally.

Now, to come back to my dilemma: Thinking of this, I tried to look up any lightweight websites that would provide me with the most basic information with sufficient speed on my 64 KBit connection. Only to find that WAP is no longer supported and that lightweight websites are few and far between. Which is actually a sad thing.

I would have expected the modern mobile web to have some kind of fallback "text only" function for devices that are on a slow connection. But no, they keep pushing their pictures, movies, sound and ads all the same. Again, less than elegant.

Those slow connections not only occur on devices that used up their allowance, but also if you are in an area with insufficient coverage and I can imagine that plenty of people are affected by this. But maybe I am being naive here.

Funnily enough, the site of my mobile provider (T-Mobile) is also loading fast, despite a lot of pictures etc. So much for net neutrality I guess. But I should not be astonished considering John Legeres question "Who the f... are you, EFF?".

I have no problems with my contract being throttled after using my allowance, but that T-Mobile allows extra bandwith for their own site, well, it does not feel right. But that is another story.

Apart from that what I did note, was that I used the Internet a LOT more than I thought I did. Countless times I had my iPad Air in hands to do some quick fact checking (looking up an actor or what is the definition of deep web). Only realizing too late that there was nothing there to check. I felt like a real ass. Mr. Pavlov sure would have a good laugh at my expense. (Rightfully so.)

So, the conclusion from this is that my trips to the library or local cafés with Wi-Fi will have to become more frequent (well, with the current weather it's not a punishment to be out more ;-)) and that I will have to plan my web usage more carefully if I don't want to burn through my data allowance of a month within a few days.

I'll let you know how that goes about the same time next week.

So long and see you around next time!
